---
title: Stem author access
slug: stem-author-access
layout: post
hours: "6:30 to 8:30pm"
---

### The meeting

Authoring accessible STEM documents with confidence and independence
can be hard especially if you’re blind and also if you don’t know
which tools are the best ones to use.

On Thursday 1 December, 6:30 t o 8:30pm BST (ie UK) time there'll be a
two hour meeting / workshop / panel discussion on this topic. The main
speaker will be Jonathan Godfrey, who is a senior lecturer in
Statistics who is also blind. He will be sharing his experience. After
starting with LaTeX he now uses the R-statistics package and its
markdown tools.

We invite other potential speakers, particularly those with
disabilities or with responsibilities for supporting such persons to
contact us. It is intended that this be the first of several such
meetings.

### Background

The arxiv.org is a massive online repository of STEM preprints, mostly
authored in LaTeX and generated into PDF upon submission. They are
doing the research and planning work now to be able to offer papers in
a more accessible form. Engaging the author will be one facet of this
effort. This STEM author access meeting and its successors are
intended to complement and provide mutual support for the work of the
arxiv team.

If you're interested in this meeting, either as participant or speaker
please do get in touch. This web page will be updated from time to
time both before and after the meeting.

You'll find some of our past videos on our [Accessibility page](/access/).

**Jonathan Fine** I have been running the TeX Hour, a weekly video
meeting, for two years now. I used to work as the LaTeX Officer at the
Open University in the UK, with technical responsibility for
production of math and upper-level physics modules. I'm now retired
and as a hobby developing the capabilities and ease of use of the TeX
mathematical typesetting system.

{% include see_about.html %}
