---
key: y2022w46
title: Less is more &mdash; micropublishing
slug: less-more-micropublish
layout: post
hours: "6:30 to 7:30pm"
---

### About

The term "micropublishing" has several meanings. An old use is
microfilm (and for spies the microdot). Today we use it to mean
rapidly published short research communications. Typically, it places
new findings directly into information discovery spaces.

We're pleased to have **Kaveh Bazargan** as a special guest. Kaveh runs
River Valley Technologies, who provide technical services and
innovation to STEM publishers.

### Future

A future TeX Hour will discuss the related topic of open access
publishing. Also related is the difference between monolithic and
modular publishing platforms.

### URLs

Here are three author and reader facing micropublication sites in
STEM:

- <https://www.micropublication.org>
- <https://www.octopus.ac>
- <https://www.researchequals.com>

{% include see_about.html %}

---

### PS: Stones

Still here? Here's something off-topic for your amusement.

The ancient Greek for stone is "lithos". In printing, "lithography" is
a printing process that relies on the mutual repulsion of oil and
water. It was invented by Alois Senefelder in 1796. It relied on a
smooth piece of limestone, which in off-set litho printing today is
replaced by a image burnt onto a flexible aluminum sheet, the "litho
plate".

In geology "lithographic limestone" is a rock that is suitable for use
as a litho stone. In the 19th century this was an item of considerable
commercial importance (just a fine marble is today).

The original source was Solnhofen in Bavaria. Besides being good for
print, its limestone contains detailed, famous and beautiful fossils,
such as all 12 known specimens of _Archaeopteryx_.

So why this diversion now into lithographic printing? Because earlier
in this post we mentioned "monolithic publishing platforms".

Some famous monoliths (which are of no use for printing, except as the
subject of a lovely print) are:

- Uluru (Northern Territory, Australia)
- Savandurga (Deccan plateau, India)
- El Capitan (Yosemite, California)
- Rock of Gibraltar (Gibraltar)

Humanity has created some large monoliths, particular for ancient
Heliopolis (about 16&nbsp;BC to AD&nbsp;60). The largest is the
"Forgotten Stone", discovered in 2014 and weighing about 1650
tonnes. Quite how something so massive was forgotten and unnoticed for
so long is hard to comprehend.

Perhaps there's a lesson here for the future of gargantuan monolithic
software.
