---
key: y2022w45
title: arXiv access and the TeX Macro Store
slug:  arxiv-access-and-tex-macro-store
layout: post
hours: "6:30 to 7:30pm"
---

We have two topics today --- news from arXiv.org and a sneak preview
of the TeX Macro Store. The Zoom URL in on the [About page](/about/).


### Making arXiv content accessible

First up is **Shamsi Brinn**. She will give a brief presentation on
arXiv's goal, and user research collected so far, around making the
scientific research papers they host (90% of which come in as LaTeX)
accessible to all regardless of disability. arXiv is the world's first
and largest preprint server, making STEM research available to
everyone without paywalls. Shamsi is the UX Manager at arXiv and is
leading the user research that will guide their accessibility efforts.


### The TeX Macro Store

Second up is **Jonathan Fine**.

The LaTeX submissions to the arXiv depend on author and publisher (the
arXiv) having sufficiently identical LaTeX installations. It would of
course be most helpful if authors and the arXiv had sufficiently
identical LaTeX to accessible output (such as XML/HTML) installation.

The goal is to produce a comprehensive, perhaps not complete, and
modern store of LaTeX macros and similar inputs. Here "modern" means
"use Git as a Content Addressable Store (CAS)". Once the basic
infrastructure is in place, it will solve many of the XML/HTML
problems as well.


Jonathan demonstrate his recent work in this area. The public
repository is at <https://github.com/jfine2358/tex-macro-store>
(although no documentation there yet, except a link to this page).

If you're technical you might enjoy the rest of this page. If not, you
can skim this (and leave the TeX Hour early).

#### Fetch

First we get the 2022 version of the `zref` macros from the tex-macro-store.
```
empty-repos$ git fetch tex-macro-store tag via_texlive/#2022/latex/zref/#1/_
[snip]
From github.com:jfine2358/tex-macro-store
 * [new tag] via_texlive/#2022/latex/zref/#1/_ -> via_texlive/#2022/latex/zref/#1/_
 * [new tag] via_texlive/#2021/latex/zref/#1/_ -> via_texlive/#2021/latex/zref/#1/_
```

#### Export (as a zip archive)

The `zref` macro files are now in the local Git object store. We can
export them:

```
empty-repos$ git archive --output tl2022-zref.zip via_texlive/#2022/latex/zref/#1/_
```

#### Check the export

```
empty-repos$ unzip -l tl2022-zref.zip
Archive:  tl2022-zref.zip
  Length      Date    Time    Name
---------  ---------- -----   ----
     2275  2022-11-09 17:23   zref-abspage.sty
     [snip]
     2454  2022-11-09 17:23   zref.sty
---------                     -------
   108626                     21 files


```

#### Setting a git remote

How did Git know which TeX Macro Store to use. Because Git is a modern
networked system, it already has a little command for setting and
using such preferences. (This is a bit like CTAN and TeXLive mirrors,
but more efficient.)

```
empty-repos$ git remote add tex-macro-store git@github.com:jfine2358/tex-macro-store.git
```

#### More efficient

The TeX Macro store occupies abou 210M. When expanded to disk it
occupies about 4.0G. This is a compression ratio of about 20
to&nbsp;1. There can be similar benefits regarding network access.

```
$ du -s -h -c /home/jfine/tb-one/texlive20*/texmf-dist/tex
164M	/home/jfine/tb-one/texlive2010/texmf-dist/tex
[snip]
506M	/home/jfine/tb-one/texlive2022/texmf-dist/tex
4.0G	total
[jfine@fedora ~]$ du -s tex-macro-store.git/
214912	tex-macro-store.git/
$ du -s -h tex-macro-store.git/
210M	tex-macro-store.git/
```


The goal is to make it easier for developers and system builders to obtain TeX macr

All topics are welcome. Come and share your screen to present
something if you wish.
