---
title: "Party: one hundred hours of TeX"
slug: party-100-hours-tex
layout: post
hours: "6:30 to 7:30pm"
---

It's now about two years and 100 meetings since the TeX Hour
started. Time to celebrate this event, to look back and to look
forward.

Also time to bring the archives and video recordings into better
order. So while this is a party meeting, there's also work to be done.

All are welcome. Bring your own ~~refreshments~~ agenda.


### The beginning

- <https://jfine2358.github.io/post/2020/12/10/tex-office-hours/>
- <https://tug.org/pipermail/texhax/2020-December/024790.html>
- <https://tug.org/pipermail/tex-live/2021-January/046380.html>

### The videos
- <https://youtube.com/@texhour>


### Partial list of TeX Hours

Taken by copy-paste-edit of <https://groups.google.com/g/comp.text.tex/search?q=tex%20hour>

#### 2022

- TeX Hour today: Vector Graphics: Thu 6:30 to 7:30pm GMT
- TeX Hour tomorrow (Thanksgiving Social) and through to end of January
- TeX Hour: Thu 17 Nov: Less is more — micropublishing: 6:30 - 7:30pm BST (UK time)
- TeX Hour: Thu 10 Nov: arXiv access and the TeX Macro Store: 6:30 - 7:30pm BST (UK time)
- TeX Hour: Thu 3 Nov: Share your screen - all topics welcome
- TeX Hour: Thu 27 Oct: Fun and games with Git and Fossil: 6:30 - 7:30pm BST (UK time)
- TeX Hour: Thu 20 Oct: Same inputs via the XML Catalog: 6:30 - 7:30pm BST (UK time)
- TeX Hour: Thu 13 Oct: Generating accessible HTML: 6:30 - 7:30pm BST (UK time)
- TeX Hour: Thu 5 Oct: Safe TeX macros: 6:30 - 7:30pm BST (UK time)
- TeX Hour: Thu 22 Sep: Using Git to subset TeX Live
- TeX Hour: Thu 15 Sep: Share your screen - all topics welcome
- TeX Hour: Thu 9 Sep - Jekyll + LaTeX compared. Thu 29 Sep - Rethink TeX in STEM
- TeX Hour: Thu 1 Sep: 6:30 to 7:30pm BST: The Future of TeX (Knuth) and Tagged PDF (Mittelbach and Rowley)
- TeX Hour: Thu 28 July: 6:30pm UK time. The Future of the TeX Users Group
- TeX Hour: Thu 21 July: Open Space: All persons and topics welcome
- TeX Hour: 14, 21 July: Open Space: TeX, PDF and technical documentation
- TeX Hour: 7, 14, 21 July: Open Space: TeX + ICM 2022 meetings, software doc'n
- TeX Hour: Thu 30 June: Society, computers and networks: 6:30pm UK time
- TeX Hour: 16 June: 6:30 to 7:30pm UK time: From Alpine Linux to DocBook via AsciiDoc
- TeX Hour: 9 June: 6:30 to 7:30pm UK time: Learning Platforms - books to containers, Euclid to Katacoda
- TeX Hour: 2 June: 6:30pm UK time: Setting up workstation with Distrobox
- TeX Hour: Thu 26 May: 6:30pm UK time: Technical Debt
- TeX Hour: Thu 12 May: 6:30pm UK time: Access and Accessibility (part 1)
- TeX Hour: Thu 28 Apr: 6:30pm UK time: Why don't ConTeXt and LaTeX join forces?
- TeX Hour: Thu 21 Apr: 6:30pm UK time: TeX Live dist'n media, your ideas, ConTeXt and LaTeX
- TeX Hour: Thu 7 Apr: 6:30pm UK time: Accessible tables, AOB, ICM 2022, TeXLive 2022 media
- TeX Hour: Thu 31 Mar: 6:30pm UK time: Christopher Alexander; I like TeX ...
- TeX Hour: Thu 24 Mar: 6:30pm UK time: Open Hour - all welcome
- TeX Hour tomorrow: More on Better Technical Documentation
- TeX Hour tomorrow: Command Line and Text User interfaces, Python syntax errors
- TeX Hour tonight: Why and How of Bridges : 18:30 UTC time
- TeX Hour tonight: Better Technical Documentation: 18:30 UTC time
- TeX Hour tonight: Accessible CLI // next week Community and Communication
- TeX Hour tonight: The context for TeX // next week: Case study on accessibility of CLI
- TeX Hour: Thu 13 Jan: Architecture for Accessible Typesetting // Thu 20 Jan: TeX Live 2022 w. Nelson Beebe

#### 2021

- TeX Hours for remainder of 2021 (Thursdays, 6:30 to 7:30pm UK time)
- TeX Hour: Thu 18 Nov: Portable TeX Documents. (Thu 25 is US Thanksgiving)
- TeX Hour: Thu 11 Nov: Idea - an online accessible LaTeX math checker
- TeX Hour: FRIDAY 5 Nov: Office of Disability Services and LaTeX developers
- TeX Hour: Thu 21 and 28 October: Durable conversion to accessible outputs
- TeX Hour tomorrow: An online forum for TeX users in the UK (18:30 to 19:30 UK time)
- TeX Hour Thur 2 Sept: Interactive online help: 6:30 to 7:30pm London time
- TeX Hour Thur 26 Aug: Portable TeX Documents: 6:30 to 7:30pm London time
- TeX Hour: XML to TeX to PDF: Thur 19 Aug 6:30 to 7:30pm UK time
- TeX Hour tomorrow: Hard technical stuff: Git as basis for CTAN + TeX Live
- TeX Hour: Thu 17 June: Enlarge TeX Live: Improve user markdown, HTML, EPUB, XML experience
- TeX Hour: Today: Code and Math Accessibility: Hard? Easy? When? Why?
- TeX Hour: Thu 3 June: TeX from scratch: Rethinking the beginner experience
- TeX Hour: Thu 27 May: Understand + refactor TeX Live: more flexible + agile
- TeX Hour: Thu 20 May, 7:00 to 8:00pm: R Markdown + Tiny TeX: with Yihui Xie
- TeX Hour tomorrow: Bibliographies for beginners, with natbib and Patrick Daly
- TeX Hour tomorrow: Experiment, Explore, look 3 months fore and aft
- TeX Hour tomorrow: Q + A: Nelson Beebe: CTAN and TeX Live
- TeX Hour tomorrow: Helping Beginners
- TeX Hour tomorrow: Monitors large, small, none and many
- TeX Hour tomorrow: Learning from Blind Coders (with Jana Schroeder)
- TeX Hour tomorrow: Lighter TeX Runs Faster
- TeX Hour tomorrow: Render LaTeX Multiple Ways
- TeX Hour tonight: New Online Tools for TeX Beginners
- TeX Hour: tonight 6:30 to 7:30pm UK time: Durable docs and software


{% include see_about.html %}
