---
key: y2022w42
title: Same inputs via the XML Catalog
slug: same-inputs-via-xml-catalog
layout: post
hours: "6:30 to 7:30pm"
---

**Jonathan Fine**: I will show work-in-progress that use an XML
Catalog and Resolver to solve the problem (in XML) of ensuring
identical inputs. The back-end which stores the inputs will be a Git
object store, and the internal names will be Git object identifiers. I
want TeX to be able to use the same method. No change would be needed
in source documents and style files.

## Background: style files

Style files are used when rendering documents. This is true for TeX,
for XML to HTML, and for CSS in the browser. Ensuring identical inputs
is crucial to ensure uniform outputs. In the old days it was the
printing press that ensured uniform outputs (except the misprints
beloved of stamp collectors).

Famously, Don Knuth's TeX generates identical outputs from identical
inputs. It is also as a program remarkable stable over time. This
makes TeX something of an an archival format and typesetting
program. He wanted TeX to give identical results not forever but for
at least 100 years.

This enduring nature is very important in STEM publishing, which
represents the accumulation of knowledge. In such areas XML documents
and tools are highly valued for being consistent and
standards-based. Publishers like them.

## The XML catalog

We need identical inputs, but without repeatedly fetching the resource
over the network. One way of thinking is to hold a locally cached copy.

To support this identical inputs need, XML built on the Catalog
provided by SGML, and also introduced the XML Resolver. I'll explain
the Catalog now, and the Resolver later.

The catalog (both XML and SGML) both provide a mapping from names to
_external entities_. An external entity can be a file, but it doesn't
need to be. It could be a URL.

This allows XML documents to refer to external resources (such as
stylesheets and schema definition) without have to specify where they
are to be found. The XML Catalog is bit like an old-fashioned phone
book. You look up a name and get not a phone number but a local name
for a file.

## An example XML Catalog

Most Linux installations have an XML catalog. Here's mine:

```xml
$ head -5 /etc/xml/catalog
<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE catalog PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD Entity Resolution XML Catalog V1.0//EN" "http://www.oasis-open.org/committees/entity/release/1.0/catalog.dtd">
<catalog xmlns="urn:oasis:names:tc:entity:xmlns:xml:catalog">
  <system systemId="http://www.w3.org/2001/xml.xsd" uri="file:///usr/share/xml/xml.xsd"/>
  <system systemId="http://www.w3.org/2009/01/xml.xsd" uri="file:///usr/share/xml/xml.xsd"/>
```

## The XML Resolver

The Catalog maps resource names in an XML document to file names (or
other Uniform Resource Identifiers). The Resolver can do all this and
more. For example, it can find a resource by looking up in a
database. Or it can even do a computation on the fly. This is a way to
get today's weather into an XML document.

## Resolvers in Python

The widely used Python module `lxml` is a wrapper around the standard
`libxml2` library. In `lxml` a Resolver can return any of:
- a parsable string
- a filename
- an open file-like object that has a read() method

## Work in progress

In `lxml` you can, using Python code, easily write your own
resolver. In particular you can use as a Catalog a mapping from names
to Git object ids. You can then in the Resolver fetch the
corresponding objects from a Git object store. This is what I'll
present at the TeX Hour.

## URLs

- <https://xmlresolver.org>
- <https://gitlab.gnome.org/GNOME/libxml2/-/wikis/home>
- <https://lxml.de/resolvers.html>

{% include see_about.html %}
