---
title: "Scientific notebooks:from Galileo to today"
slug: science-notebooks-galileo-to-today
layout: post
hours: "6:30 to 7:30pm"
---

### About

Notebooks go back to the 1300s. But only after the rise of publishing
did paper become a relatively cheap commodity. Hence the eraseable
slate being widely used in schools until the 1900s. Legend says the US
legal pad arose around 1888, being clean scrap paper from local
printers repurposed. (Affordable for lawyers, but not for
schoolchildren.) The UK National Archives has naval captain's logs
going back to 1669.

The Biblioteca Nazionale Centrale, Florence has Galileo Galilei's
_Notes on Motion_, written around 1600 to 1630. Some of the many other
famous and notable (apologies) notebooks are by da Vinci, Gauss,
Faraday, Darwin, Riemann, Pasteur, Pierre and Marie Curie, Edison,
Tesla, Einstein and Fleming. They'll be a quick guided tour.

Today, elegant and legible handwriting is in the decline (along with
mental arithmetic). And the work _notebook_ is in American English a
synonym for a laptop computer. And the text-and-symbols computational
front-end Jupyter also describes itself as a notebook. Jupyter has
limited ability to produce printed output.

And tomorrow --- well next next month actually --- the IPAM at UCLA
will be holding a week-long workshop on Machine Assisted Proofs. There
are two Fields Medallists on the Organizing Committee (Gowers and Tao)
and important results from a third (Scholze) have been checked by such
software.

A large part of the challenge today is the creation of _digital paper_
that for science has the benefits of both traditional paper and modern
interactive media. The TeX community has special responsibilities, in
the present building a bridge between these two worlds.

### URLs

Prior to the TeX Hour relevant URLs will appear here. And do bring
your own to the meeting if you wish.

{% include see_about.html %}
