---
key: y2023w09
title: "Regression tests and unlatex"
slug: regress-test-unlatex
layout: post
hours: "6:30 to 7:30pm"
---

### Summary

**Jonathan Fine** Regression tests are a good thing. They check that
changed software still performs as expected after a change. It is a
very important part of test automation. This TeX Hour is about
improved regresssion tests.

And when there enough automated tests, it becomes much easier to
refactor style files to provide improved implementation and additional
functionality. And to do this without unknowingly changing the
typesetting of existing documents.


{% include see_about.html %}

---

### Topics

By chance, today Ulrike Fischer of the LaTeX Project reported that an
`l3build` test broke suddenly. This was because something appeared in
a different location in the `pdftex` log file. The development of the
tagged PDF functionality of LaTeX will benefit from more detailed and
less noisy regression tests.

TeX produces identical outputs from identical inputs. One of TeX's
outputs is a `dvi` file, or for PDFTeX a `pdf` file. Identical log
files was never part of the TeX specification. Identical `dvi` very
much is. But there is another possible output, which is much better
for regression testing.

TeX and PDFTeX produce a `dvi` of `pdf` file by applying the
`\shipout` primitive to a `\box` (such as a typeset page). With just a
little work, we can instead use `\showbox` to produce a text
representation of the `\box`.

The text representation is not useful for human readers, but it is
much better for regression tests. It provides both more detail about
changes and less noise about irrelevant changes.

### What is unlatex?

Here's how I see large-scale refactoring of LaTeX. Because LaTeX is so
mature, there are many existing documents. So much possibilities for
regression tests.

So this is what we can do. Create a large inventory of `\showbox`
outputs. The task then is to `unlatex` these `\showbox` outputs. In
other words, produce TeX inputs that will produce **exactly** these
output.

Experience will show how useful this is. The success of `lwarp` gives
me optimism. It produces quite good HTML from LaTeX, going via
`dvi`. Going via `\showbox` will give more information than via `dvi`,
and so further opportunities to recover the syntax of the original
LaTeX document.

In short, perhaps with `unlatex` we can both extensively refactor
LaTeX and convert LaTeX source documents to HTML/XML.

There is also a unified-latex (or unlatex) project in the JavaScript
world (see the URLs).

---

## URLs

* [Regression testing (wikipedia)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regression_testing)
* [Ulrike Fischer (texlive pretest)](https://tug.org/pipermail/tex-live/2023-February/048880.html)
* [The Lwarp converter (Brian Dunn)](https://bdtechconcepts.com/LaTeX-HTML-Converter-The-Lwarp-package.html)
* [unlatex - Rust binding to unified-latex](https://docs.rs/unlatex/latest/unlatex/)
* [unified-latex:  a JS LaTeX AST package (github)](https://github.com/siefkenj/unified-latex)