---
key: y2023w08
title: "Unlatex and the Access Tree"
slug: unlatex-access-tree
layout: post
hours: "6:30 to 7:30pm"
---

### Summary

**Jonathan Fine** `latex` is a document compiler. From a source file it
produces PDF. However, `unlatex` goes the other way. Hence the name.

To produce a page of PDF, `latex` ships out an internal TeX box. The
starting point of `unlatex` is a text representation of that box. This
TeX Hour will demonstrate software to produce such files. It can
process any source file file that `latex` can process.

The resulting `texbox` files provide a very good starting point for
reconstructing the original source file, and also the style files that
created the PDF.  The `texbox` files are also a good starting point
for creating an Accessibility Tree. The access tree is the object the
screen reader interacts with, when reading an accessible document.

{% include see_about.html %}

---

### The Access Tree

Most blind people prefer HTML read in the web browser to PDF read in a
PDF reader. Here are four reasons for this.

* They are accustomed to using the web browser.
* The web browser provides better support for their preferred screen
reader.
* As a document standard, HTML supports the Access Tree better than PDF does.
* As a reading tool, the web browser supports the Access Tree better
than PDF readers do.

`latex` ships out a `texbox` to generate a page of PDF. The `texbox`
contains important information, valuable for creating the Access Tree,
that the PDF does not contain.

The big question is this: How successful will be the `texbox` to Access
Tree transformation?  Experiment, experience, examples and testing are
needed to properly answer this question.

### Two simple `texbox` files


Here are two examples. They are enough to learn from, but not enough
to answer the big question. A future steps is to gather more small
examples, and to create statistics on a wide range of important real
world documents.

The first example is focussed on reconstructing the input. The input
`Hello world!` produces:

```
\hbox(6.94444+0.0)x52.80565
.\OT1/cmr/m/n/10 H
.\OT1/cmr/m/n/10 e
.\OT1/cmr/m/n/10 l
.\OT1/cmr/m/n/10 l
.\OT1/cmr/m/n/10 o
.\glue 3.33333 plus 1.66666 minus 1.11111
.\OT1/cmr/m/n/10 w
.\kern-0.27779
.\OT1/cmr/m/n/10 o
.\OT1/cmr/m/n/10 r
.\OT1/cmr/m/n/10 l
.\OT1/cmr/m/n/10 d
.\OT1/cmr/m/n/10 !
```

The second example is focussed on reconstructing the style file
macros. The input `LaTeX` produces:

```
\hbox(6.83331+2.15277)x25.66368
.\OT1/cmr/m/n/10 L
.\kern -3.6
.\vbox(6.83331+0.0)x5.90282, glue set 2.04997fil
..\hbox(4.78334+0.0)x5.90282
...\OT1/cmr/m/n/7 A
..\glue 0.0 plus 1.0fil minus 1.0fil
.\kern -1.49994
.\OT1/cmr/m/n/10 T
.\kern -1.66702
.\hbox(6.83331+0.0)x6.80557, shifted 2.15277
..\OT1/cmr/m/n/10 E
.\kern -1.25
.\OT1/cmr/m/n/10 X
```

Each reader is welcome to form their own opinion. I am optimistic, if
only because the highly successful Lwarp converter from Brian Dunn
uses a broadly similar architecture The big difference are:

* I use the `texbox` files rather than the resulting `dvi` files.
* Lwarp uses custom style files, which has benefits and costs.

It may be that each is better than the other on a favoured group of
documents. And perhaps the two approaches can be unified, at least in
the production of the resulting Access Tree or HTML. This would
benefit users and developers.

---

## URLs

* [Unlatex (github)](https://github.com/arxtex/unlatex)
* [Accessibility Tree (Ben Myers)](https://benmyers.dev/blog/accessibility-tree/)
* [Accessibility Tree (web.dev)](https://web.dev/the-accessibility-tree/)
* [The Lwarp converter (Brian Dunn)](https://bdtechconcepts.com/LaTeX-HTML-Converter-The-Lwarp-package.html)
