---
key: y2023w03
title: "STEM access: From author to reader (talks)"
slug: stem-access-author-reader
layout: post
hours: "6:30 to 8:30pm"
---

The video for the talks is above. For the discussion follow [this
link]({% post_url 2023-01-19-bonus-texhour %}).


### The meeting

On Thursday 19 January, 6:30 to 8:30pm UK (ie GMT) time there was a
special two hour meeting on accessibility in the STEM document
toolchain, from author to reader.

### Speakers: Jason White, Jonathan Godfrey and Patrick Smyth

We're fortunate to have **three** special guests, all with expert
knowledge and experience both personal and professional.

- **Jason White** is an accessibility advocate, scholar, and
free/open-source software enthusiast with a deep commitment to social
justice. He currently serves as Co-Facilitator, with Scott Hollier, of
the W3C's Research Questions (accessibility) Task Force, which focuses
on issues arising from new and emerging Web technologies. He recently
published [Using Markup Languages for Accessible Scientific,
Technical, and Scholarly Document Creation](https://scholarworks.rit.edu/jsesd/vol25/iss1/5/).

- **Jonathan Godfrey** is a Senior Lecturer in Statistics at Massey
University in New Zealand. He is also blind. He'll be sharing his
experience. After starting with LaTeX he now uses the R-statistics
package and its markdown tools. He's a regular and valued expert
contributor to the Blind Math mailing list. Here's [Jonathan's home
page](https://www.massey.ac.nz/massey/learning/colleges/college-of-sciences/about/school-mathematical-computational-sciences/smcs-staff/smcs-staff_home.cfm?stref=416430).

- **Patrick Smyth** is a blind humanist and hacker. He researches and
writes in a field dominated by print, proprietary databases and other
inaccessible formats and systems. His 2021 prizewinning PhD at CUNY,
[Negotiated Access](https://academicworks.cuny.edu/gc_etds/4311/), is
on this very topic. Right now he's an external contractor for an
accessibility project for NASA's Space Telescope Science
Institute. This involves Jupyter notebooks. Here's [Patrick's home
page](https://smythp.com/).

### Meeting format

The first hour will be presentations from our speakers. After a break,
we'll then go into Panel or Small Group mode. All are welcome. The
meeting will be recorded and published. You'll find some past videos
on the [Accessibility page](/access/).

### Background

Authoring accessible STEM documents with confidence and independence
can be hard especially if you’re blind and also if you don’t know
which tools are the best ones to use. And even for the sighted,
there's the problem choosing tools that produce outputs that are
accessible to those who are not.

The arxiv.org is a massive online repository of STEM preprints, mostly
authored in LaTeX and generated into PDF upon submission. They are
doing the research and planning work now to be able to offer papers in
a more accessible form. Engaging the author will be one facet of this
effort.

This STEM author and reader access meeting and its successors are
intended to complement and provide mutual support for the work of the
arxiv team.
