---
key: y2023w37
title: "2025 Problems - Value added typesetting"
slug: 2025-problems-value-added-typesetting
layout: post
hours: "6:30 to 7:30pm"
---

## Summary

**Jonathan Fine** Typesetting is about breaking things, to fit the
page. A paragraph is broken into lines, each about the width of the
page. The long sequence of lines (called a galley) is broken into
pieces, each about the height of a page.

To a first approximation, typesetting a text file consists of
inserting line-break symbols into the text. And some of the line-break
symbols are immediately followed by a page-break symbol.

Looked at in this way, typesetting is a value-added process. It
inserts the line and page breaks. That's the added value. And if those
breaks are removed, we get the original source file back.

I wrote an article in 1996 that described this process. At that time
software and hardware to support wide use of such technology was rare
(and I certainly didn't have it). However, today such resources are
plentiful, and such a process need no longer be a dream.

In the video I describe the motivation and process. For
value-added-typesetting the output pages can be treated as a wrapper
that contains the source document. Thus the output pages will support
**any** rendering of the source document, including speech for the
blind and partially sighted.

## Difficulties

**Nelson Beebe** listened carefully to my presentation. Here are some
potential problems and opportunities he identified, as I see them.

1. Comments in source documents can be very valuable, and such
comments should be preserved.

2. TeX typesetting does not record word boundaries (starts and
ends). This is something value-added typesetting must record. Such is
vital for improved accessibility.

3. There are issues regarding the `\hyphenchar` in TeX. In particular,
it's just a character in a font, and the same character can appear in
ordinary input.

4. Keeping the input in the output provides roundtripping. But do we
get **exactly** the same document as the one we put in. This is
related to the normalisation (or pretty-printing) of text files.

5. Martin Ruckert's HINT system provides prior art for much of the
technology needed for value-added typesetting. Cooperation with HINT
would benefit both sides.

6. There are issues regarding macros, as in TeX and LaTeX. My response
to that is to create **just a typesetting program**, and ensure that
it supports roundtripping for its input.

7. It is the responsibility of the macro system to ensure that its
processing supports roundtripping via the typesetting roundtripping.

## URLs

* [Jonathan Fine, Editing `.dvi` Files, or Visual TeX, 1996,
  (PDF)](https://tug.org/TUGboat/tb17-3/tb52finv.pdf)

{% include see_about.html %}
---
