---
key: y2023w26
title: "Symbolic languages"
slug: symbolic-languages
layout: post
hours: "6:30 to 7:30pm"
---

## Summary

**Jonathan Fine** In some sense, all languages are symbolic. The word
'cat' is not a cat. The finger pointing at the moon is not the
moon. Spoken language has many non-symbolic elements, such as tone of
voice. Counting and arithmetic and numbers is largely symbolic.

By and large, the languages that instruct and inform computers are
symbolic.  The same goes for when computers talk back to us. This TeX
Hour arises from the various modes of thinking and expression involved
in some fairly simple-minded (but perhaps quite deep) mathematical
research I'm doing.

Every living human language has a community of users. French is the
language spoken by the people of France. However, the Swiss speak
German, French, Italian and Romansh.

Mathematics is one, or rather several, more or less formal
languages. This ranges from mathematics as Euclid and predecessors
(such as Babylon 2000 BC) understood it to, via LaTeX and computer algebra, to
formal languages for computer verified mathematical proofs. Related
and overlapping with this are languages for algorithms and computer
programs.

When we think of language as a human activity, we get another way of
looking at and understanding problems of accessibility, and the
challenges and opportunities arising when digital media enters a
culture that has a long history of relying on print, all the way back
to Gutenberg's printing press (1440).

## URLs

To follow.
