---
key: y2023w15
title: "Unlatex: results and prospects"
slug: unlatex-results-prospects
layout: post
hours: "6:30 to 7:30pm"
---

### Summary

**Jonathan Fine** `latex` is a program that compiles a source document
to a PDF document. I'm writing `unlatex` as a program that goes in the
other direction. I'm doing this with a view to
* Intercepting the creation of PDF to produce more accessible outputs.
* Adding information just before the creation of the PDF to produce tagged PDF.
* Providing high-quality regression tests for changes in macros and other inputs.


Well, next week, on Monday 17 April 1:00-5:00pm Eastern Time, we have
the very first arXiv Access Forum. I'm looking forward to that. I'm
most grateful to the organisers, and I hope they're not
overwhelmed. They have a massive responsibility. As do the esteemed
presenters and panelists, and the many participants.

This TeX Hour is about my emerging `unlatex` tool for reprocessing TeX
documents, to provide more accessible outputs. Here are some arXiv
stats (in round numbers):

* Total number of submissions: 2.25 million.
* Downloads per month: 25 million.
* Seconds in a month: 2.6 million.
* Registered for arXiv Access Forum: 2,000.

Why seconds in a month? Well, it's approximately equal to the total
number of submissions. So we can make a Fermi estimate as to how long
it will take to reprocess the entire arXiv to get accessible outputs
(assuming suitable software).

Suppose we have a desktop PC with 12 cores, so 24 threads, so about 20
cores doing useful work. On such a machine, if not bottlenecked, we
could do the whole lot in a month provided each item takes only 20
seconds. The download might take a while, and the electricity would be
about £150 (or $150).

Harder is to make a Fermi estimate for creating suitable software, and
yet harder is writing and testing the software, and its we hope
accessible outputs.



{% include see_about.html %}

---
### URLs


#### arXiv Access Forum

* [2023 Arxiv Accessibility
Forum (arxiv)](https://info.arxiv.org/about/accessibility_forum.html)

#### Unlatex and Access Tree
* [Unlatex (github)](https://github.com/arxtex/unlatex)
* [Accessibility Tree (Ben Myers)](https://benmyers.dev/blog/accessibility-tree/)
* [Accessibility Tree (web.dev)](https://web.dev/the-accessibility-tree/)
