---
key: y2023w16
title: "Why paper? Why print? Why PDF? Why HTML?"
slug: why-paper-print-pdf-html
layout: post
hours: "6:30 to 7:30pm"
---

### Summary

**Jonathan Fine** Today we use history to put into context the
importance of the first arXiv Access Forum, which was earlier this
week. The arXiv intends to offer research articles in both PDF and
HTML. They retain the current LaTeX-based production process, and add
to another that provides HTML. This is a major development.

{% include see_about.html %}
---

The combination of imagination and toolmaking that we have is not
shared by any other species on Earth. It allows us to form huge social
organisations, which can help us and harm us. Artificial Intelligence
is the latest example.

AI is all about shared knowledge and, we hope, wisdom. About 2,000
years ago the Chinese started making paper, for writing, drawing and
money. About 1,000 years ago it came to Europe. Around 1850 paper from
wood-pulp was a thing, and being a clerk (or writer) lost its high
status.

Parallel to this, and in mutual dependence, there is print using
moveable type. After beginning in China around 1,000 years ago,
Gutenberg created his high quality and relatively low cost Bible in
1455\. Hot-metal typesetting in the 19th century largely replaced
moveable type (with its upper-case and lower-case).

In 1609 weekly printed newspapers started in Germany. In 1937 four men
owned close to half the newspapers in the UK, with a combined daily
circulation of over 13 million. This arose in part from the steam
driven rotary printing press operating on massive continuous rolls of
newsprint.

From the time of Martin Luther (1483-1546), paper and print were and
still are important human artifacts that create, influence and change
human society. Even when hand written, important document achieved
their influence through print.

Which brings us to PDF, HTML and the arXiv Access Forum. For the past
500 years paper and print has given much of humanity access to news,
culture, gossip, sport and generally a shared culture and
understanding. It also enabled and promoted education and literacy.

Until the 1980s paper physical moved was the dominant means of
distribution. Even telegrams were transcribed onto paper and then
delivered. Think of email versus snailmail. The Internet (1980s), and
particularly the World Wide Web (1990) changed all this. Earlier this
century streaming over the Internet challenged broadcast radio and
television.

I now in my pocket have a device which allows me to have a video
conversation with a friend in a different continent. There is a rich
culture going back 500 years for the printed book. It should not
lightly be discarded. There is enormous energy and innovative in
computing and telecommunications. It should not be disregarded.

Our task, which also includes providing access to those permanently or
temporarily disabled, is to make access to this cultural life
something similar to a human right and social good, much as in the
great library movement in the 19th century and earlier.

One of the great modern uses of printing today is printed circuit
boards and photolithography of processor and memory chips. The world
leading in photolithography is ASML in the Netherlands. It has revenue
about $23 billion and 40,000 employees. For comparison, Heidelberg is
the world leader in printing presses. It has revenue $2.7 billion and
12,000 employees.

This then, in a large nutshell, is the historic context for the
arXiv's decision to give HTML some sort of equality of esteem with
PDF.

---
### URLs


#### arXiv Access Forum

* [2023 Arxiv Accessibility
Forum (arxiv)](https://accessibility2023.arxiv.org/)
* [History of paper (wikipedia)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/History_of_paper)
* [ASML Holdings (wikipedia)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ASML_Holding)
* [Heidelberger Druckmaschinen (wikipedia)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Heidelberger_Druckmaschinen)