---
key: y2023w06
title: "Digital Typography: from DESQview to Wayland"
slug: digit-typo-desqview-wayland
layout: post
hours: "6:30 to 7:30pm"
---

### Summary

**Jonathan Fine** This TeX Hour is about improving both the
accessibility and the typography of a Linux window manager, namely
Sway. It is a personal project, to make my own workstation easier to
use. I hope it will benefit others.

{% include see_about.html %}

---

### Topics

Until recently most Linux desktops used the X-windows system (now
nearly 40 years old). Now many are using Wayland. This bring many
typographic benefits (now possible on today's computers).


Sway is a Linux window manager that uses Wayland as its display
server. Sway can be controlled using only the keyboard. It can also be
controlled by an external process, such as a command line interface. I
hope to provide some live demonstrations.

DESQview is an MS-DOS multitasking and windowing environment, almost
as old as X-windows. It had a very nice keyboard interface which, 30
years on, I still greatly miss. DESQview showed itself only when you
tapped the Alt key. You tap Alt to get the rest of the DEQVview
keyboard interface.


### But is this Digital Typography?

No-one would deny that today Web Typography is part of Digital
Typography. It includes substantial elements of usability and user
experience (UX).

By _Digital Typography_ I mean using computers to render words, images
and other resources for print, web pages, accessible audio and other
outputs.

My monitor today offers a typographic canvas superior in most ways to
that offered by my 1989 laser printer, and way beyond my 1989 monitor.

* My 1989 laser printer was 3510x2490 dots (300 dpi) when using A4 paper.
* My 1989 EGA adapter was 640x350 pixels with 64 colours.
* My 2018 monitor is 4840x2160 pixels with zillions of colours and interactivity.

### Real and virtual documents

In 1989 my monitor provided a preview of the real thing, which was
print on paper. PDF introduced reliable electronic or virtual
documents. Today electronic documents are often no longer
virtual. They are the real thing itself. Many people don't need or use
a printer.

### URLs

* [DESQview (wikipedia)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DESQview)
* [EGA graphics](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Enhanced_Graphics_Adapter)
* [Sway (wikipedia)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sway_(window_manager))
* [User experience (wikipedia)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User_experience)
* [Wayland (wikipedia)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wayland_(protocol))
* [X windows (wikipedia)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/X_Window_System)
